Let us talk about parameter passing method In this video.
We have already learn about functions how to write the functions and how to call the functions.
We learn that parameters are taken by function as input and the functions will process and perform some
specific task and they are return some result.
So what are the methods  a function can take the parameter.
So we learn about this.
So there are three methods.
A function can take parameters.
These are the three methods supported in C++.
If you know about C language they were only two methods.
That is pass by value and pass by address.
But in C++ there are three methods: pass by value, pass by address, pass by reference.
So this actually
we can also call it as call by value, call by address and call by reference also it's the same thing.
So by taking one single example I'll explain you the differences between these three methods how they
work.
And once you know about these methods so you can use them based on that your requirement and whichever is suitable
you can use that.
So here I have done one program to demonstrate all these three parameter passing methods.
So let us see, let us understand the code first then we look at all the parameters passing  methods
one by one.
See here inside the main function I have two variables X and Y they are having some values 10 and 20.
Then I'm calling swap function here.
So it means it will interchange the values of x and Y.
So Y will become 10 and x become 20.
That 20 will come here and 10 will go there.
That is the purpose for that purpose I have written this function.
Then after that I'm trying.
to display X and Y.
So what I'm expecting is 20 and 10 should be displayed because after swaping the value should be
change. now  the function i have written let us look at that.
this function SWAP int A int B.
So these values will be passed this one then there is a temporary variable.
And here is the logic for swapping the values of A and B.
Now this parameter passing method is actually call by value.
So once I explain that I can make you understand what does it mean by  what is call by value.
Let us run this and see really it will swap two values or not let us look at the execution of this one.
You know well that the memory is divided into three sections.
One is a code section in which this machine code of this program is reciding.
Now let us start the execution.
The program will start from main, this is the entry part of a program.
So the very first line says that I need two variables x and y to store some numbers.
So inside the stack a block of memory is allocated for X having value 10 and the y having value 20
and this blog belongs to main function.
We call this as activation record.
Now next a swap function is called the moment the swap function is called, inside the parameters it
says that it needs a b and also inside that there is a variable temp so block of memory is allocated
for swap function and it will have variable A B and temp
now as this function is called value of x is copied in a and the Y is copied in b.
So ten is copied here and 20 is copied here and this is for swap function.
Now let's see what's happening here.
The value of a and b are interchange or temp assign a value.
So 10 will be copied in temp then a assign b value so b value is stored in A.
So this becomes 20 then b assigned temp so B will contain the value of temp.
So ten is stored here.
So yes they are swapped.
Now this is the last line the moment the function ends you know well that once the function ends
its activation record or the block of memory inside the stack will be deleted.
So this will be gone.
I will not mark it, just i will ahow it as deleted.
OK.
This is deleted.
Now the control comes back to the main function.
No it will print x and y.
So what are the values of x and y 10 and 20.
Oh they are not swapped this is 10 as it is and this is 20 as it is, they are not swapped.
Yes.
So this is call by value method in this method.
The values of these X and Y they are copied in this one and swapping of these variables is done not
the actual parameters.
So that's the point here in call by value method.
The value of the parameter is passed to a function.
So these parameters we call them as actual parameters and these parameters we call them as formal parameters
so just be different...
These are also parameters, that are also parameter, so to differentiate  we say that are actual and
that are formal so the value of actual parameter is copied in formal parameters.
And if any changes are done inside the formal parameters will not change the actual parameters.
So if you want the call by value mechanism to modify actual parameters it cannot do that.
Then when you use call by value mechanism, if you want a function to just take the values and perform
the operation and return the result then you use call by value.
This function is  not returning anything and call the value method is not suitable for swap function
for other purpose
You can use call by value, so in practice we will be looking at call by value methods also. while writting
for the programs.
Iwill show you where
call by value method is useful.
So we have finished with call by value, so I repeat the points
Once again, that if any changes are done to formal parameters that will not reflect in actual parameters
you can see that the activision record of Main is different and activation record of swap
is different and it is making changes in its own variable so it is not modifying means variables.
This is call by value.